README.md, before:

# Macsim 
## Introduction

* MacSim is a heterogeneous architecture timing model simulator that is
  developed from Georgia Institute of Technology.
* It simulates x86, ARM64, NVIDIA PTX and Intel GEN GPU instructions and can be configured as
  either a trace driven or execution-drive cycle level simulator. It models
  detailed mico-architectural behaviors, including pipeline stages,
  multi-threading, and memory systems.
* MacSim is capable of simulating a variety of architectures, such as Intel's
  Sandy Bridge, Skylake (both CPUs and GPUs) and NVIDIA's Fermi. It can simulate homogeneous ISA multicore
  simulations as well as heterogeneous ISA multicore simulations. It also
  supports asymmetric multicore configurations (small cores + medium cores + big
  cores) and SMT or MT architectures as well.
* Currently interconnection network model (based on IRIS) and power model (based
  on McPAT) are connected.
* MacSim is also one of the components of SST, so muiltiple MacSim simulatore
  can run concurrently.
* The project has been supported by Intel, NSF, Sandia National Lab.

## Note

* If you're interested in the Intel's integrated GPU model in MacSim, please refer to [intel_gpu](https://github.com/gthparch/macsim/tree/intel_gpu) branch.

* We've developed a power model for GPU architecture using McPAT. Please refer
  to the following paper for more detailed
  information. [Power Modeling for GPU Architecture using McPAT](http://www.cercs.gatech.edu/tech-reports/tr2013/git-cercs-13-10.pdf)
  Modeling for GPU Architecture using McPAT.pdf) by Jieun Lim, Nagesh
  B. Lakshminarayana, Hyesoon Kim, William Song, Sudhakar Yalamanchili, Wonyong
  Sung, from Transactions on Design Automation of Electronic Systems (TODAES)
  Vol. 19, No. 3.
* We've characterised the performance of Intel's integrated GPUs using MacSim. Please refer to the following paper for more detailed information. [Performance Characterisation and Simulation of Intel's Integrated GPU Architecture (ISPASS'18)](http://comparch.gatech.edu/hparch/papers/gera_ispass18.pdf)

## Intel GEN GPU Architecture
* Intel GEN9 GPU Architecture: ![](http://comparch.gatech.edu/hparch/images/intel_gen9_arch.png)

## Documentation

Please see [MacSim documentation file](https://github.com/gthparch/macsim/blob/master/doc/macsim.pdf) for more detailed descriptions.


## Download

* You can download the latest copy from our git repository.

```
git clone -b intel_gpu https://github.com/gthparch/macsim.git

download traces 
/macsim/tools/download_trace_files.py

```
## build 
  ./build.py --ramulator 
  (please see /macsim/INSTALL)

```
git clone https://github.com/joey0320/macsim.git
git checkout iommu
git submodule init
git submodule update
docker pull joonho0320/gem5-ubuntu20:v2
export UID=$(id -u)
export GID=$(id -g)
docker run -it --rm -u $UID:$GID -v /home/user_name/:/home/user_name/ joonho0320/gem5-ubuntu20:v2
go to macsim directory
python3 build.py --iommu --dram -j24 
```
## generating GPU traces
Please take a look at macsim_src_dir/tools/gpu_tracegen

## bin directory structure for iommu sim
```
bin
|
| build.py
| configs.in
| macsim
| gen_iommu_config.py
| run.sh
|___ stats
```

## running iommusim + macsim
0. go to the ```bin``` directory
1. generate ```config-pool``` directory which contains various IOMMU parameters
  - ```cp ../scripts/gen_iommu_config.py ./```
  - ```python3 gen_iommu_config.py```
2. copy the slurm run script to bin
  - ```cp ../scripts/run.sh ./```
3. set up ```trace_file_list``` to the ```kernel_config.txt``` path
4. set up ```params.in```
5. make a directory to contain stats
  - ```mkdir stats```
6. use slurm to run the process
  - ```sbatch run.sh```

## People

* Prof. Hyesoon Kim (Project Leader) at Georgia Tech 
Hparch research group 
(http://hparch.gatech.edu/people.hparch) 



## Q & A 

If you have a question, please use github issue ticket. 


## Tutorial

* We had a tutorial in HPCA-2012. Please visit [here](http://comparch.gatech.edu/hparch/OcelotMacsim_tutorial.html) for the slides.
* We had a tutorial in ISCA-2012, Please visit [here](http://comparch.gatech.edu/hparch/isca12_gt.html) for the slides.


## SST+MacSim

* Here are two example configurations of SST+MacSim.
  * A multi-socket system with cache coherence model: ![](http://comparch.gatech.edu/hparch/images/sst+macsim_conf_1.png)
  * A CPU+GPU heterogeneous system with shared memory: ![](http://comparch.gatech.edu/hparch/images/sst+macsim_conf_2.png)

## TODO
- shared DRAMSim btw macsim & IOMMUSim
- network latency modeling
- pagetable mappings btw macsim & IOMMUSim ?

Commit message:

fix some instructions about running iommu+macsim

README.md, after:

# Macsim 
## Introduction

* MacSim is a heterogeneous architecture timing model simulator that is
  developed from Georgia Institute of Technology.
* It simulates x86, ARM64, NVIDIA PTX and Intel GEN GPU instructions and can be configured as
  either a trace driven or execution-drive cycle level simulator. It models
  detailed mico-architectural behaviors, including pipeline stages,
  multi-threading, and memory systems.
* MacSim is capable of simulating a variety of architectures, such as Intel's
  Sandy Bridge, Skylake (both CPUs and GPUs) and NVIDIA's Fermi. It can simulate homogeneous ISA multicore
  simulations as well as heterogeneous ISA multicore simulations. It also
  supports asymmetric multicore configurations (small cores + medium cores + big
  cores) and SMT or MT architectures as well.
* Currently interconnection network model (based on IRIS) and power model (based
  on McPAT) are connected.
* MacSim is also one of the components of SST, so muiltiple MacSim simulatore
  can run concurrently.
* The project has been supported by Intel, NSF, Sandia National Lab.

## Note

* If you're interested in the Intel's integrated GPU model in MacSim, please refer to [intel_gpu](https://github.com/gthparch/macsim/tree/intel_gpu) branch.

* We've developed a power model for GPU architecture using McPAT. Please refer
  to the following paper for more detailed
  information. [Power Modeling for GPU Architecture using McPAT](http://www.cercs.gatech.edu/tech-reports/tr2013/git-cercs-13-10.pdf)
  Modeling for GPU Architecture using McPAT.pdf) by Jieun Lim, Nagesh
  B. Lakshminarayana, Hyesoon Kim, William Song, Sudhakar Yalamanchili, Wonyong
  Sung, from Transactions on Design Automation of Electronic Systems (TODAES)
  Vol. 19, No. 3.
* We've characterised the performance of Intel's integrated GPUs using MacSim. Please refer to the following paper for more detailed information. [Performance Characterisation and Simulation of Intel's Integrated GPU Architecture (ISPASS'18)](http://comparch.gatech.edu/hparch/papers/gera_ispass18.pdf)

## Intel GEN GPU Architecture
* Intel GEN9 GPU Architecture: ![](http://comparch.gatech.edu/hparch/images/intel_gen9_arch.png)

## Documentation

Please see [MacSim documentation file](https://github.com/gthparch/macsim/blob/master/doc/macsim.pdf) for more detailed descriptions.


## Download

* You can download the latest copy from our git repository.

```
git clone -b intel_gpu https://github.com/gthparch/macsim.git

download traces 
/macsim/tools/download_trace_files.py

```
## build 
  ./build.py --ramulator 
  (please see /macsim/INSTALL)

```
git clone https://github.com/joey0320/macsim.git
git checkout iommu
git submodule init
git submodule update
docker pull joonho0320/gem5-ubuntu20:v2
export UID=$(id -u)
export GID=$(id -g)
docker run -it --rm -u $UID:$GID -v /home/user_name/:/home/user_name/ joonho0320/gem5-ubuntu20:v2
go to macsim directory
python3 build.py --iommu --dram -j24 
```
## generating GPU traces
Please take a look at the readme in macsim_src_dir/tools/gpu_tracegen

## bin directory structure for iommu sim
```
bin
|
| build.py
| get_stats.py
| configs.in
| macsim
| run.sh
|___ stats
```

## running iommusim + macsim
0. go to the ```bin``` directory
1. set up ```trace_file_list``` to the ```kernel_config.txt``` path
2. set up ```params.in```
3. use slurm to run the process
  - ```sbatch run.sh```
4. parse the data by using ```get_stats.py```
  - ```python3 get_stats.py --result=./results --outfile=./out-dir/out.csv```

## People

* Prof. Hyesoon Kim (Project Leader) at Georgia Tech 
Hparch research group 
(http://hparch.gatech.edu/people.hparch) 



## Q & A 

If you have a question, please use github issue ticket. 


## Tutorial

* We had a tutorial in HPCA-2012. Please visit [here](http://comparch.gatech.edu/hparch/OcelotMacsim_tutorial.html) for the slides.
* We had a tutorial in ISCA-2012, Please visit [here](http://comparch.gatech.edu/hparch/isca12_gt.html) for the slides.


## SST+MacSim

* Here are two example configurations of SST+MacSim.
  * A multi-socket system with cache coherence model: ![](http://comparch.gatech.edu/hparch/images/sst+macsim_conf_1.png)
  * A CPU+GPU heterogeneous system with shared memory: ![](http://comparch.gatech.edu/hparch/images/sst+macsim_conf_2.png)

## TODO
- shared DRAMSim btw macsim & IOMMUSim
- network latency modeling
- pagetable mappings btw macsim & IOMMUSim ?
